#summary Information on JJPlayer
#labels Featured

= JJPlayer =

JJPlayer is the player included in the android package.  It is a fairly bare-bones player used to test jjmpeg on this platform.  jjmpeg contains much more than just the decoding libraries, which is probably more useful than another video player.

Here are a few short notes about it.

 * It only uses software decoding provided by FFmpeg for all streams (which limits it's upper resolution somewhat).
 * GLESv2 is used for the YUV to RGB conversion and scaling.
 * The player activity is set up to be invoked for mime types video/`*` and audio/`*`
 * The player activity is set up to be invoked for http or local resources of these mime types.
 * All networking code is using the FFmpeg i/o routines.
 * It will utilise multiple-core cpus.  FFmpeg is built with threading support, and separate threads are used for each of demux, audio decode, video decode, and video rendering.
 * There is and never will be any advertising, spying, or data collection of any kind.

The Internet Connectivity requirement at installation time is needed for HTTP streams.

= Known bugs =

This is seriously alpha software, so far from complete and chock-a-block full of bugs:

 * In the emulator the frames are displayed in the wrong order (rapid jumping), not sure if this happens on other hardware (probably so)
 * It usually crashes at the end of playing videos (it's just closing some resources in the wrong order).
 * For audio-only streams the progress bar doesn't update.
 * Audio-only streams do not play as a service (not in the background).
 * For some videos the progress bar doesn't progress cleanly but jumps back and forth.
 * The video is simply scaled to the screen size - no aspect ratio calculations are performed.
 * UI is somewhat lacking, no pause/resume/etc.
 * Changing applications causes playing to stop and not resume - this used to work so something got broken recently.

= License =

The license is and always will be GPLv3 or later.  The *full and complete source code* to the player is available on this site.